docs(devtools): add docs for sdk python (#2390)
scaleway/docs-content: developer-tools/scaleway-sdk/python-sdk.mdx

content:
  h1: Scaleway Python software developement kit (SDK)
  paragraph: This page explains how to install and configure the Scaleway CLI locally
tags: devtools cli download-cli scaleway-cli command-line 
dates:
  validation: 2023-09-21
  posted: 2021-09-21
categories:
  - devtools
---

The Scaleway Python SDK is a tool provided by Scaleway for developers to interact with its services programmatically. 
It allows for the automation of tasks like server management, storage operations, and networking setup through Python scripts, handling the complexities of direct API calls and authentication behind simple Python function calls. 
This makes it easier to integrate Scaleway's cloud resources into applications or manage them through code. 

## Installation of the Python SDK

The SDK is available in two flavors, a synchronous and an asynchronous one.

Install from PyPI:
```
pip install scaleway
```
Install from PyPI (async):
```
pip install scaleway-asynchronous
```

<Message type="note">
  This library is made to work with Python 3.8 but should work on the latest versions too.
</Message>

## Initialization

> You need a pair of access and secret keys to connect to Scaleway API. Please check the documentation on [how to retrieve them](/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need a pair of access and secret keys to connect to Scaleway API. Check out the documentation to find out [how to retrieve them](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/).
```

`scaleway` APIs must be initialized with a `scaleway.Client`.

A minimal setup would look like this:

```
   from scaleway import Client
   from scaleway.registry.v1 import RegistryV1API

   client = Client(
      access_key="SCWXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
      secret_key="xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
      default_project_id="xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
      default_region="fr-par",
      default_zone="fr-par-1",
   )

   registry_api = RegistryV1API(client)
```

## Example

> To create a Kubernetes cluster on Scaleway using the Python SDK, you would typically interact with the `scaleway` SDK package. Please note that the specific details can change, so you should always refer to the latest documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a Kubernetes cluster on Scaleway using the Python SDK, you would typically interact with the `scaleway` SDK package. The specific details can change, so you should always refer to the latest documentation. 
```

---
meta:
  title: Scaleway Python software developement kit (SDK)

>   description: This page explains how to install and configure the Scaleway CLI locally

Author: ```suggestion
  description: This page explains how to install and use the Scaleway Python software developement kit (SDK)
```

content:
  h1: Scaleway Python software developement kit (SDK)

>   paragraph: This page explains how to install and configure the Scaleway CLI locally

Author: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This page explains how to install and use the Scaleway Python software developement kit (SDK)
```

> tags: devtools cli download-cli scaleway-cli command-line 

Author: ```suggestion
tags: devtools sdk python-sdkscaleway-sdk 
```
